---
modified: 05-02-2025 @ 12:42
---

>[!warning]+ 🚧 **UNDER DESTRUCTION** 🚧
>You've entered *Wreck it with Rose's* demolition zone...💥🔨
>
>Whether you stumbled upon this work-site, or were explicitly invited, WELCOME...but put a hard hat on!👷
>
>⚠️This page is in state of disrepair! Proceed with caution⚠️

## Overview:
### Why Does this Tutorial Exist:

As you may have noticed, this is *NOT* the only **Quartz** tutorial drifting out on the interwebs. In fact, I followed some of those other tutorials to set up this very website. Obviously, they got me through just fine. As I grappled with this project, I ran into several hiccups and encountered quite a few new and confusing topics. This tutorial started as a collection of research and notes to myself should I ever need to go through this process again (my memory isn't great, you see). In the spirt of sharing, I've packaged it up all pretty for you to peruse. I hope you find it helpful.

---
### What to Expect:

This tutorial is intended to be an agnostic step-by-step guide to deploying an **Obsidian** vault as a website using **Quartz** and **GitHub Pages**. As such, it will include the following:

- A basic introduction to **terminal commands**.
- An *technically optional* installation of of **Git** and **GitBash** (for *Windows* users).
- A basic introduction to, and installation of: **Node.js** via **NPM** and **NVM**.
- A basic introduction and comparison of **HTTPS** and **SSH**.
- An *optional* setup of **SSH**.
- An extremely basic introduction to **GitHub** and a few of it's features.
- And a primer on how to use **Quartz** to publish your **Obsidian** vault reliably.

---
### What **NOT** to Expect:

- This is *NOT* a complete course on any of the above mentioned topics:

	- When practical, I provide links to useful resources if you want to dive deeper on your own (which I encourage, but it's *NOT* required).
	- The ultimate goal of this tutorial is to give you enough information to get your website up, nothing more.
	
- I am *NOT* an expert on any of these topics:

	- I taught myself all of what I share with you by scouring the web for details specific to this project (Reddit, YouTube, GitHub, StackOverflow, Quartz documentation, etc.)
	- I'm confident you could find all this information on your own, but why bother when I've already done that for you?

---
### FAQ:

#### Is it worth the time and effort?

##### For me? 
	 
 - Absolutely! I wasn't expecting to learn as much as I did and, honestly, that was over half the fun for me. Having a functional website and multiple crash courses on some really technical topics was reward enough for the time I invested.
- Had this not been my first foray into **Node.js**, **Node Version Manager (NVM)**, **NPM (Node Package Manager)**, **MacOS command line**, **Secure Shell (SSH)**, and **Github Pages**...perhaps it would *NOT* have been as time consuming...But it was my first encounter with all of these things. This slowed my progress significantly. 
	
##### For you?

- This is really subjective and ultimately depends on what you're hoping to get in return for your time and effort.
- What is worth my time may not be worth yours.
- That being said, I hope this guide cuts down on the time burden, thus increasing the potential worth of of the end product.
#### How long will this take?

- I estimate the whole process shouldn't take you more than *an hour or two* if you follow every step of this tutorial. This will take even less time if you pass on the *optional* sections.
#### How difficult is this project? 

- If I did my job right, not difficult at all! You might even learn something 🤞
- The goal of this tutorial is to help you set up **Quartz**, an **Obsidian Vault**, and **Github pages** so you can deploy a modifiable static-website, not only for free, but with minimal friction! 

#### How do I use this guide?

Here are some helpful tips to get the most out of this tutorial:
- This is an **external-link** that will take you to another site: [CLICK ME!]()
- This is a **back-link** that will take you to another page or section of this site: [[1. Start Here|HOVER OVER ME!]]
	- *Hovering over* this **back-link** will provide a preview of the back-linked page or section.
	- *Clicking on* this **back-link** will take you to that 

---
## Start Here

Next step : [[1. Start Here]]