---
modified: 04-27-2025 @ 15:36
---

>[!warning]+ 🚧 **UNDER DESTRUCTION** 🚧
>You've entered *Wreck it with Rose's* demolition zone...💥🔨
>
>Whether you stumbled upon this work-site, or were explicitly invited, WELCOME...but put a hard hat on!👷
>
>⚠️This page is in state of disrepair! Proceed with caution⚠️

## Overview:
### Why Does this Tutorial Exist:

As you may have noticed, this is *NOT* the only **Quartz** tutorial drifting out on the interwebs. In fact, I followed some of those other tutorials to set up this very website. Obviously, they got me through just fine. As I grappled with this project, I ran into several hiccups and encountered quite a few new and confusing topics. This tutorial started as as a collection of research and notes to myself should I ever need to go through this again (my memory isn't great you see). In the spirt of sharing, I've packaged it up all pretty for you to peruse. I hope you find it helpful.
### What to Expect:

This tutorial is intended to be an agnostic step-by-step guide to deploying an **Obsidian** vault as a website using **Quartz** and **GitHub Pages**. As such, it will include the following:

- A basic introduction to **terminal commands**.
- An *optional* installation of of **Git** and **GitBash** (for *Windows* users).
- A basic introduction to, and installation of: **node.js** via **NPM** and **NVM**.
- A basic introduction and comparison of **HTTPS** and **SSH**.
- An *optional* setup of **SSH**.
- A a extremely basic introduction to **GitHub** and a few of it's features.
- And a primer on how to use **Quartz** to publish your **Obsidian** vault reliably.
### What **NOT** to Expect:

- This is *NOT* a complete course on any of the above mentioned topics:

	- When practical, I provide links to useful resources if you want to dive deeper on your own (which I encourage, but it's *NOT* required).
	
- I am *NOT* an expert on any of these topics:

	- I taught myself all of what I share with you by scouring the web for details specific to this project (Reddit, YouTube, GitHub, StackOverflow, etc.)

### FAQ:

#### Is it worth the time and effort?

- For me? 
	 
	- Absolutely! I wasn't expecting to learn as much as I did and, honestly, that was over half the fun for me. Having a website and crash course on some really technical topics  was reward enough for the hours I spent on the project and this tutorial.
	- Had this not been my first foray into **node.js**, **Node Version Manager (NVM)**, **NPM (Node Package Manager)**, **MacOS command line**, **Secure Shell (SSH)** and **Github Pages**...perhaps...But it was my first encounter with all of these things. This slowed my progress significantly. 
	
- For you?
	
	- That really depends on what you're hoping to get from your time and effort.
	- What is worth my time may not be worth yours.
	- That being said, I hope this guide cuts down on the time burden, thus increasing the worth of of the end product.
#### How long will this take me?

- I estimate the whole process shouldn't take you more than *an hour or two* if you follow every step of this tutorial. This will take even less time if you pass on the *optional* sections.
#### How Difficult is this Project? 

- If I do my job right, not at all! You might even learn something 🤞
- The goal of this tutorial is to help you set up **Quartz**, an **Obsidian Vault**, and **Github pages** to host your website, not only for free, but with minimal friction! 


# Start Here

Next step : [[1. Start Here]]