---
modified: 04-23-2025 @ 12:19
---
## VS Code will make your life easier:

If you're not familiar or comfortable with VS code, don't fret. I'll walk you through the basic set up so you can perform basic tasks to complete this tutorial.
#### Do you need VS code?
- Technically no, you don't. All of this can be done via your device's terminal like in previous steps.
#### How will it make things easier?
- **VS Code** has a much more intuitive user interface than the terminal on your device.
	- Subjectively speaking, I find it easier to navigate than the terminal and I hope you do too.
- It also allows you to create and edit files with *.yml* and *.ts* extensions (among others) which are useful for both deploying and customizing your website.
- If this is your first exposure to **VS Code**, there's a good chance you'll end up using it for not only Quartz, but other applications in the as well.

#### Can you still follow along if you don't install VS Code?
- *Certainly!* I'll include directions for both manual and VS Code approaches.
	- The command line instructions will all be the same!
	- You will need to make one *.yml* file which can be done manually. 

## Install Quartz:
[Quartz](https://quartz.jzhao.xyz/) explains the installation process succinctly and may be all you need. Follow those instructions and come back here if you want more detail and nuance. 
- If you do skip this section in favor of Quartz's guide, feel free to jump to the [[4. Deploy your site with Github]] section once you have Quartz setup👋.
- For everyone else, please continue reading 🙃




